veps/vep-2.md, before:

# VEP-2 Vitess Release Cycle

```
VEP: 1
Title: Vitess Patch Releases
Author: Deepthi Sigireddi
Reviewers: Morgan Tocker, Rafael Chacon Vivas, Guido Iaquinti
Status: Proposed
Created: 2020-06-17
```

## Abstract

VEP-1(#1) established a release cycle for Vitess. Now that there have been 3 major releases, this VEP proposes some changes to the release cycle based on that experience.
All other sections of VEP-1 will continue to be in force without any change.

## Versioning and Release Cadence

The proposed release cycle is best described as _Monotonic Versioning_ with a release cadence similar to Kubernetes. The terminology `COMPATIBILITY.RELEASE` used in this document is directly sourced from the [Monotonic Versioning Manifesto](http://blog.appliedcompscilab.com/monotonic_versioning_manifesto/). Monotonic versioning itself is a modified version of [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/).

1. The `COMPATIBILITY` number will be incremented every 13 weeks.
2. Each `COMPATIBILITY` number will be supported by the Open Source Vitess community for 9 months after the initial release. _Support Lifecycle_ is described in VEP-1.
3. Patch releases will be created as needed. Patch releases will follow SemVer instead of monotonic versioning. The numbering scheme will be `COMPATIBILITY.PATCH_NUMBER`.
4. Events that trigger patch releases are major regressions in functionality or performance, and CVEs.

Commit message:

VEP2 - remove monotonic versioning language, add performance benchmarking
Signed-off-by: deepthi <deepthi@planetscale.com>

veps/vep-2.md, after:

# VEP-2 Vitess Release Cycle

```
VEP: 1
Title: Vitess Patch Releases
Author: Deepthi Sigireddi
Reviewers: Morgan Tocker, Rafael Chacon Vivas, Guido Iaquinti, Derek Perkins, Dan Kozlowski
Status: Proposed
Created: 2020-06-17
```

## Abstract

VEP-1(#1) established a release cycle for Vitess. Now that there have been 3 major releases, this VEP proposes some changes to the release cycle based on that experience.
All other sections of VEP-1 will continue to be in force without any change.

## Versioning and Release Cadence

1. The `COMPATIBILITY` number will be incremented every 13 weeks. For example, the next major release will have a `COMPATIBILITY` number of `7.0`.
2. Each `COMPATIBILITY` number will be supported by the Open Source Vitess community for 9 months after the initial release. _Support Lifecycle_ is described in VEP-1.
3. Patch releases will be created as needed. Patch releases will follow SemVer. The numbering scheme will be `COMPATIBILITY.PATCH_NUMBER`. For example, the first patch release on `7.0`, if there is one, will be `7.0.1`. `PATCH_NUMBER` will be monotonically increasing.
4. Events that trigger patch releases are major regressions in functionality or performance, and CVEs.

## Release Criteria

In addition to the criteria established in VEP-1, a nightly performance benchmark will be established. Any changes that impact performance by more than 5% as measured against the most recent major release will need to be addressed before another release can be made.

## References

* [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/)
